ever since I've been driving a Honda
engine there's really been a very very
sharp focus on drivability and how the
engine works in the car and how the
engine works in conjunction of with the
car and the setup and how the driver is
driving this drivability what we call it
we always try to to take into account a
different scenario on the track there
are a lot of different ways actually to
describe drivability there's drivability
of up shifts there's drivability of down
shifts there's drivability of the
throttle which are kind of just exiting
the quarter there's drivability as
you're in the mid corner actually when
we've looked at and classifying
drivability there's like over 20
different ways you can actually describe
the drivability of the engine and the
question is which one do you focus on
we're always searching for what does the
engine really need to do you know does
it need this much power here you know is
the power delivery too picky you know
what can we do to help the driver we
always think in terms of off power but
we we have shifted this this idea of AHS
power although as a motorist you want to
have always this ingenious of power item
it also kind of depends on the nature of
the racing and how much time you spend
at wide open throttle but you know peak
power is probably our number one focus
but drivability is a close second we
take the mathematical principles we take
the physical principles we put a lot of
Honda powder on it we took a lot of
experience from the different team
members and then we do a great engine in
the grand scheme of things nothing moves
forward unless that number is bigger so
if we've got a new piston if we have a
new port if we got a new cam if it's not
moving that dial further to the right
it's not gonna make it out to the
racetrack
once the engine gets fitted in the
currents going around there's a lot of
different things that will influence the
overall performance of the car and there
are many things that the engine and its
power delivery characteristics can
influence even on how you drive and how
you set up the car yes you have this
base map which is evolved off the dyno
but that's just you know that that's
maybe 80% of the work and if you've done
a good job it's 85 percent of the work
the final sort of 15 20 percent is
what's done here at the racetrack with a
Honda technicians working in conjunction
with the team figuring out what it is
that this particular driver this
particular racetrack requires my
responsibility is to set up the running
calibration for the particular engine in
the car and there are two switches that
offer eight positions each and each
position is set to a different
calibration a map you might say and we
constantly monitor the engine's
performance and the vital signs and
sometimes we may ask to go to a
different position based on the
circumstances there's a lot of work that
goes on with the team engineers and with
the drivers to really understand what
they need from the engine if we took
cool twelve of the Honda drivers or just
the four within the and ready team and
we overlaid all their throttle traces
for an identical lap they will all be
different so every driver has a
different style of how they use the
throttle some of them are very
progressive in the application of the
throttle and other drivers are a little
bit more digital different driving
styles right everyone has a different
way to skin the cat there are guys that
are late breakers you know and there are
guys what we call pointing squirt
I mean there are all sorts of different
driving styles some drivers might be
really really smooth and steady with
their throttle application other drivers
might be a little more comfortable
hanging the the back end of the car out
the absolute perfect driver will
understand exactly the best way to drive
a particular corner and with a
particular car in a particular engine
you know and he will be constantly
adapting the way they drive to extract
the absolute optimum the very clever
drivers are able to subtly modify the
way they drive but at the end of the day
we're dealing with human beings and
human beings are individuals and they
have different approaches under
different situations and yes in theory
it would be great to be able to treat
the human being like a robot and have
them adapt to the engine but I think the
best result is when you meet in the
middle and it is your job as a driver to
find the optimum for their car for their
particular state of the track and the
car in the engine and tires and so on
and so forth the driver does have a
number of we refer to them as map
switches so on the steering wheel he
will have the opportunity to adjust from
say what he's referred to as best power
through to a range of perhaps with this
Indy car engine which has got is a
turbocharged engine so he can adjust
perhaps trimming the boost a little bit
if he's finding that he's having boost
penalties or things like that so he can
back off the boost a little bit he has
fuel trim switches so he can lean out
the engine if necessary if we're trying
to hit a particular fuel usage per lap
target today you have an information
overload you know you have mountains of
data you have a lot of different options
from the all the electronic systems in
the car so now you really need to be
able to deal with all that info
Meishan sometimes you can go overboard
and get yourself terribly confused but
there is no question you know then you
can do a better job as a driver and as
an engineer if you understand how to
make the most out of that information
that is available in at your fingertips